                            Exective Summary

With more than 145 million active daily users, Twitter have become a part of the marketing strategy for business owners.  It’s the fifth most popular social media network, and it’s a gold mine of customer insights and opportunities to build the brand, drive sales and win fans.

The dataset we acquired from data.world contains tweets on US Airline of February 2015 classified in positive, negative and neutral tweets. The negative tweets are also classified by the negative reason. By applying Exploratory Data Analysis techniques, we are able to compare the performance for each airline measured by the amount positive or negative tweets. Furthermore, we can identify what caused the majority of negative reasons at the level of airlines.  

In addition to findings obtained from Exploratory Data Analysis, the business owners are more interested in making predictions from new unknown data. This is sentiment analysis, the most common text classification tool, to analyse an incoming message and tell whether the underlying sentiment is positive, negative or neutral. 

The first challenge is that the dataset is very unstructured. Before we do data visualization and model building, we need to do some data pre-processing or wrangling to remove unnecessary characters, symbols and tokens.  The definition of unnecessary information actually depends on which machine learning 
techniques to use.  In this project, we will apply both traditional and advanced techniques to build sentiment analysis models. For traditional ones, we will try to clean the unnecessary information as much as possible since we convert the documents into individual tokens without considering the context.  By contrast, we need to keep import contextual connection between words if word2vec or deep learning model is built.

We have tried different text data encoding method: CountVectorization and TF-IDF to convert textual data into numerical data. We then built a couple of predictive models using both traditional machine learning techniques and advanced deep learning methods. For all different models we built, the metrics we used to evaluate the performance is accuracy score.  Out of all these models, we found the Keras-based model using Embedding layer outperforms other counterparts by the accuracy score of 0.8224.  In other words, if this model is put into practice, the business owner will have the much high ability of predicting the sentiment for incoming messages.  This can definitely help enhance the operational efficiency and improve the customers’ satisfaction. 
